<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 14: The Sea of Sleep</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIV</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Sea of Sleep</span>
			</h2>
			<p>For a considerable period after the last incident which I have narrated in my diary, I had serious thoughts of leaving this house, and might have done so; but for the great and wonderful thing of which I am about to write.</p>
			<p>How well I was advised, in my heart, when I stayed on here⁠—spite of those visions and sights of unknown and unexplainable things; for, had I not stayed, then I had not seen again the face of her I loved. Yes, though few know it, none now save my sister Mary, I have loved and, ah! me⁠—lost.</p>
			<p>I would write down the story of those sweet, old days; but it would be like the tearing of old wounds; yet, after that which has happened, what need have I to care? For she has come to me out of the unknown. Strangely, she warned me; warned me passionately against this house; begged me to leave it; but admitted, when I questioned her, that she could not have come to me, had I been elsewhere. Yet, in spite of this, still she warned me, earnestly; telling me that it was a place long ago given over to evil, and under the power of grim laws, of which none here have knowledge. And I⁠—I just asked her, again, whether she would come to me elsewhere, and she could only stand, silent.</p>
			<p>It was thus, that I came to the place of the Sea of Sleep⁠—so she termed it, in her dear speech with me. I had stayed up, in my study, reading; and must have dozed over the book. Suddenly, I awoke and sat upright, with a start. For a moment, I looked ’round, with a puzzled sense of something unusual. There was a misty look about the room, giving a curious softness to each table and chair and furnishing.</p>
			<p>Gradually, the mistiness increased; growing, as it were, out of nothing. Then, slowly, a soft, white light began to glow in the room. The flames of the candles shone through it, palely. I looked from side to side, and found that I could still see each piece of furniture; but in a strangely unreal way, more as though the ghost of each table and chair had taken the place of the solid article.</p>
			<p>Gradually, as I looked, I saw them fade and fade; until, slowly, they resolved into nothingness. Now, I looked again at the candles. They shone wanly, and, even as I watched, grew more unreal, and so vanished. The room was filled, now, with a soft, yet luminous, white twilight, like a gentle mist of light. Beyond this, I could see nothing. Even the walls had vanished.</p>
			<p>Presently, I became conscious that a faint, continuous sound, pulsed through the silence that wrapped me. I listened intently. It grew more distinct, until it appeared to me that I harked to the breathings of some great sea. I cannot tell how long a space passed thus; but, after a while, it seemed that I could see through the mistiness; and, slowly, I became aware that I was standing upon the shore of an immense and silent sea. This shore was smooth and long, vanishing to right and left of me, in extreme distances. In front, swam a still immensity of sleeping ocean. At times, it seemed to me that I caught a faint glimmer of light, under its surface; but of this, I could not be sure. Behind me, rose up, to an extraordinary height, gaunt, black cliffs.</p>
			<p>Overhead, the sky was of a uniform cold grey color⁠—the whole place being lit by a stupendous globe of pale fire, that swam a little above the far horizon, and shed a foamlike light above the quiet waters.</p>
			<p>Beyond the gentle murmur of the sea, an intense stillness prevailed. For a long while, I stayed there, looking out across its strangeness. Then, as I stared, it seemed that a bubble of white foam floated up out of the depths, and then, even now I know not how it was, I was looking upon, nay, looking <em>into</em> the face of Her⁠—aye! into her face⁠—into her soul; and she looked back at me, with such a commingling of joy and sadness, that I ran toward her, blindly; crying strangely to her, in a very agony of remembrance, of terror, and of hope, to come to me. Yet, spite of my crying, she stayed out there upon the sea, and only shook her head, sorrowfully; but, in her eyes was the old Earth-light of tenderness that I had come to know, before all things, ere we were parted.</p>
			<p>At her perverseness, I grew desperate, and essayed to wade out to her; yet, though I would, I could not. Something, some invisible barrier, held me back, and I was fain to stay where I was, and cry out to her in the fullness of my soul, “O, my Darling, my Darling⁠—” but could say no more, for very intensity. And, at that, she came over, swiftly, and touched me, and it was as though heaven had opened. Yet, when I reached out my hands to her, she put me from her with tenderly stern hands, and I was abashed⁠—</p>
			<section id="fragments" epub:type="subchapter">
				<header>
					<h3>The Fragments<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></h3>
					<p>(The legible portions of the mutilated leaves.)</p>
				</header>
				<p>… through tears … noise of eternity in my ears, we parted … She whom I love. O, my God … !</p>
				<p>I was a great time dazed, and then I was alone in the blackness of the night. I knew that I journeyed back, once more, to the known universe. Presently, I emerged from that enormous darkness. I had come among the stars … vast time … the sun, far and remote.</p>
				<p>I entered into the gulf that separates our system from the outer suns. As I sped across the dividing dark, I watched, steadily, the ever-growing brightness and size of our sun. Once, I glanced back to the stars, and saw them shift, as it were, in my wake, against the mighty background of night, so vast was the speed of my passing spirit.</p>
				<p>I drew nigher to our system, and now I could see the shine of Jupiter. Later, I distinguished the cold, blue gleam of the Earth-light. … I had a moment of bewilderment. All about the sun there seemed to be bright, objects, moving in rapid orbits. Inward, nigh to the savage glory of the sun, there circled two darting points of light, and, further off, there flew a blue, shining speck, that I knew to be the Earth. It circled the sun in a space that seemed to be no more than an Earth-minute.</p>
				<p>… nearer with great speed. I saw the radiances of Jupiter and Saturn, spinning, with incredible swiftness, in huge orbits. And ever I drew more nigh, and looked out upon this strange sight⁠—the visible circling of the planets about the mother sun. It was as though time had been annihilated for me; so that a year was no more to my unfleshed spirit, than is a moment to an earthbound soul.</p>
				<p>The speed of the planets appeared to increase; and, presently, I was watching the sun, all ringed about with hairlike circles of different colored fire⁠—the paths of the planets, hurtling at mighty speed, about the central flame. …</p>
				<p>… the sun grew vast, as though it leapt to meet me. … And now I was within the circling of the outer planets, and flitting swiftly, toward the place where the Earth, glimmering through the blue splendor of its orbit, as though a fiery mist, circled the sun at a monstrous speed. …<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
