<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="rearnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li data-se-note-number="1" id="note-1" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>An apparently unmeaning interpolation. I can find no previous reference in the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr> to this matter. It becomes clearer, however, in the light of succeeding incidents. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-13.xhtml#note-1" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="2" id="note-2" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Here, the writing becomes undecipherable, owing to the damaged condition of this part of the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr>. Below I print such fragments as are legible. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-14.xhtml#note-2" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="3" id="note-3" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>The severest scrutiny has not enabled me to decipher more of the damaged portion of the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr>. It commences to be legible again with the chapter entitled “<a href="../text/chapter-15.xhtml">The Noise in the Night</a>.” <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-14.xhtml#note-3" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="4" id="note-4" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>The Recluse uses this as an illustration, evidently in the sense of the popular conception of a comet. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-15.xhtml#note-4" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="5" id="note-5" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Evidently referring to something set forth in the missing and mutilated pages. See “<a href="../text/chapter-14.xhtml#fragments">Fragments,” Chapter 14</a>. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/#note-5" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="6" id="note-6" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>No further mention is made of the moon. From what is said here, it is evident that our satellite had greatly increased its distance from the earth. Possibly, at a later age it may even have broken loose from our attraction. I cannot but regret that no light is shed on this point. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-17.xhtml#note-6" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="7" id="note-7" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Conceivably, frozen air. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-17.xhtml#note-7" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="8" id="note-8" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p><a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-7">See previous note.</a> This would explain the snow (?) within the room. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-17.xhtml#note-8" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="9" id="note-9" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>I am confounded that neither here, nor later on, does the Recluse make any further mention of the continued north and south movement (apparent, of course) of the sun from solstice to solstice. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite><a href="../text/chapter-17.xhtml#note-9" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="10" id="note-10" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>At this time the sound-carrying atmosphere must have been either incredibly attenuated, or⁠—more probably⁠—nonexistent. In the light of this, it cannot be supposed that these, or any other, noises would have been apparent to living ears⁠—to hearing, as we, in the material body, understand that sense. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-18.xhtml#note-10" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="11" id="note-11" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>I can only suppose that the time of the earth’s yearly journey had ceased to bear its present <em>relative</em> proportion to the period of the sun’s rotation. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-18.xhtml#note-11" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="12" id="note-12" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>A careful reading of the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr> suggests that, either the sun is traveling on an orbit of great eccentricity, or else that it was approaching the green star on a lessening orbit. And at this moment, I conceive it to be finally torn directly from its oblique course, by the gravitational pull of the immense star. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-18.xhtml#note-12" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="13" id="note-13" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>It will be noticed here that the earth was “<em>slowly</em> traversing the tremendous face of the dead sun.” No explanation is given of this, and we must conclude, either that the speed of time had slowed, or else that the earth was actually progressing on its orbit at a rate, slow, when measured by existing standards. A careful study of the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr> however, leads me to conclude that the speed of time had been steadily decreasing for a very considerable period. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-18.xhtml#note-13" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="14" id="note-14" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>
						<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-10">See this note.</a>
						<a href="../text/chapter-19.xhtml#note-14" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="15" id="note-15" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Without doubt, the flame-edged mass of the Dead Central Sun, seen from another dimension. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-22.xhtml#note-15" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="16" id="note-16" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>From the unfinished word, it is possible, on the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr>, to trace a faint line of ink, which suggests that the pen has trailed away over the paper; possibly, through fright and weakness. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/chapter-26.xhtml#note-16" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li data-se-note-number="17" id="note-17" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>These stanzas I found, in pencil, upon a piece of foolscap gummed in behind the flyleaf of the <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr>. They have all the appearance of having been written at an earlier date than the Manuscript. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc">Ed.</abbr></cite> <a href="../text/grief.xhtml#note-17" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
